'\"macro stdmacro
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 Red Hat.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
.\" Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
.\" option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
.\" or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License
.\" for more details.
.\"
.TH ATOP-DAILY 1 "PCP" "Performance Co-Pilot"
.SH NAME
\f3atop-daily\f1 \- daily maintenance of pcp-atop PCP archives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B $PCP_BINADM_DIR/atop-daily
[\f3\-\-compress\-only\f1]
[\f3\-\-help\f1]
[\f2LOGPATH\f1]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B atop-daily
performs daily maintenance of
.BR pcp-atop (1)
PCP archives.
It is normally called from
.BR systemd (1)
via the
.B atop-daily.timer
unit, or automatically by
.BR pcp-atop (1)
at startup.
.PP
When run without options,
.B atop-daily
creates the archive directory if absent,
compresses prior-day archives using
.BR xz (1)
for metadata and
.BR zstd (1)
for data volumes,
and culls archives older than
.B LOGGENERATIONS
days (default 28).
.PP
Compression is non-blocking: files are atomically renamed then compressed
by background processes so the caller and
.BR pcp-atop (1)
can proceed immediately.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\f3\-\-compress\-only\f1
Compress prior-day archives only; do not cull old archives.
This mode is used when called from
.BR pcp-atop (1)
itself at startup.
.TP
\f3\-\-help\f1
Display a usage message and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The following environment variables may be set in the
.BR pcp-atop (1)
sysconfig file
.RI ( /etc/sysconfig/atop
or
.IR /etc/default/atop ):
.TP
.B LOGPATH
Archive directory.
Default:
.IR /var/log/atop .
May also be specified as a command line argument.
.TP
.B LOGGENERATIONS
Number of days of archives to retain.
Default: 28.
A value of 0 disables culling.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/atop
Default directory for
.BR pcp-atop (1)
archive files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pcp-atop (1),
.BR pcp-atopsar (1),
.BR PCPIntro (1),
.BR systemd (1),
.BR xz (1),
.BR zstd (1),
.BR pcp.conf (5)
and
.BR pcp.env (5).

.\" control lines for scripts/man-spell
.\" +ok+ LOGGENERATIONS LOGPATH {from config variable names}
